Last time we looked at transforming variables and we ended up with this low balance variable which we
are now using in our regression instead of the balance variable.
So I'm just going to put this to the side.
And what we're going to talk about today is creating derived variables.
The concept is very similar to transforming variables but the nature is a bit different.
What we're doing which is for a Marable's is we had an effect but we thought it was misrepresented by
the variable we wanted to contrast it and maybe represent a more significantly less significant by transforming
transforming that specific variable.
Whereas when we creating derived variables were creating a representation for new effects that are currently
not illustrated by our data.
And let me explain through an example.
So here we've got a column which is balance and the colon which is age and it is normal for balance
to grow with age it doesn't always happen.
But generally the older a person gets the more balance they will have on their account because they
accumulate wealth over time.
However there's also different effects where different people accumulate wealth wealth differently and
somebody who is in their late fifties might have a great balance but somebody who is in their early
30s might have a very similar to that person balance even though they're younger just because they're
more successful at work they're more ambitious.
They may be saved better.
They have different financial strategies or goals and because we're mixing everything up together and
we're only looking at balance those two people get mixed up and in a way they'll be regarded in a similar
fashion.
But what if we want to take those separate those effect so we want to separate people who accumulate
balance over time naturally from people who are actually determined to save up a balance or to grow
their balance and therefore they are able to do it at an early age.
And also we might want to separate people who are the opposite who are old but have a low balance and
maybe they're at risk of defaulting or maybe they are banking of somebody else.
And so there's lots of different effects in that that are just getting masked by the fact that we're
treating everybody just based on the ballots.
So in this way in this sense is a very popular method to create a variable which represents the speed
at which people are accumulating wealth and that is by taking balance and dividing it by age.
So that's exactly what we're going to do now.
We're going to Right-Click undefined variable.
And I will call it wealth accumulation and all just think balance and divided by age.
That's as simple as that.
Because we know that age is not a zero ever.
And there we go that's our new wealth accumulation variable over here.
So what we can do now is we just can include it in our regression.
We'll go to model logit binary and find a new variable and then just put it into our regression and
we click OK.
And those compared to what we already had.
So what happened here.
Well first thing we can see is that there is a variable and it's actually got a negative sign but doesn't
really matter what side it has because it is not significant.
And another thing you'll notice is that the R squared what happens are you actually decreased a little
bit and our accuracy decreased a little bit so adding this variable is not a good thing for this specific
model.
However what we're not taking into consideration right now is the fact that there might be some quarterly
collinearity effects because wealth accumulation look includes balance which is in load balance and
age.
So basically what that means is that this variable might be somehow or these three variables are correlated
and by including them in the model maybe we are actually causing damage to the model and therefore one
of them has to be excluded.
So effects like the out of multi-collinearity We will talk about in the next tutorial when we're checking
for multi-color Lunardi using the method.
But for now what I wanted to say is that sometimes you might want to include a variable like that balance
over age and you might have other ideas for creating new variables.
You could take 10 year and divide that by age or understand you know the difference between some variables
.
You could even create a variable which is like a flag like whether a person has a zero balance or doesn't
have a zero balance so you might want to try that that might work well in this data set different types
of verbal So anything that comes to mind.
And also like I said with transformations there's a lot of business knowledge involved here.
It's actually in derived variables it might be a bit easier than transformations because you don't have
to know whether it's a square or a variable or take a logarithm or square root out of it.
But you can somehow assess effects may be for instance if you're doing some modeling for a manufacturing
plant you might know that it's not.
It's not about how much oil you put into the machines but it's how much oil per square meter of something
that you put into machines and you might know that you need to actually.
These metrics are used by the engineers so why don't I put it into my regression and things like that
so your domain knowledge will help you identify these drive variables that change your grade.
So I just gave you an example here.
That's how you do it.
And then you just include in your model and in the next tutorial we will have a look and see how you
can also check for multicollinearity effects to make sure you're not breaking a model